# ___How Do Radars Work?___
-------------------------

- ___Radar technology is complex, both in terms of the physical devices that produce data and the size, structure & complexity of the data generated by the radars.___

- ___At its core radars are based on EMRs bouncing off the surfaces of sloid objects. The mechanism is quite analogous to the way we see the light reflected by objects in our retinas. However, In radars, the waves are produced by the radar transmitter and the reflection is received by the radar receiver. Radar beams move at the speed of light, traveling 250 kilometers in 0.001 seconds.___

- ___Generally radars are categorized based on "bands". S-band radars operate on a wavelength of 8 - 15 cms and are used in the U.S National Weather Service. C-band radars use a wavelength of 4 - 8 cms, and are used by European wether radar networks. More specialized radars for local weather and biological applications are the X-band radars with a wavelength of 2.5 - 4 cms that enables them to detect smaller particles.___

- ___Smaller wavelengths are more sensitive, and can detect smaller objects. But smaller wavelengths attenuate more quickly, so the range over these radars can operate is very limited.___

- ___The raw reflection of the EMR is detected simply as a change in voltage in the radar's receiver. This voltage change is then interpreted by the hardware & software to generate a setf of different data.___

- ___Radar radiation is polarized when transmitted, meaning that the EMR wave is oriented in a single plane. (The oscillation will be in XY plane / XZ plane / YZ plane). Some radars use dual polarization that sends out EMRs in two orientations. (Oscillation takes place in XYZ plane).___

- ___From a single polarization, the reflection can tell you how far away an object is based on the time taken for the reflection to return.