# ___Quantification of Bioscatterers___
--------------------

### ___Weather radars and biological radars for quantifying bioscatterers.___

- ### ___Weather radars are excellent for quantification at large scale. By measuring the amount of echo received by the radar receiver from objects, radars can quantify the biomass present in the scanning volume.___

- ### ___Decades of measurements and analyses by metereologists, allows weather forecasters  to predict the amount of rainfall based on radar data. And some polarimetric radar variables correlate very well with rainfall rates.___

- ### ___As we step into the realm of aeroecology using radars, this methods become more complicated. First step in differentiating radar signals from animals from that coming from weather phenomena is to filter out the noise. This leverages some polarimetric variables generated by the dual polarization radars. e.g. high $\rho hv$ and a near zero $ZDR$.___

- ### ___If we bin the radar scan volume into small cubes, each of these will be dominated by one entity, say bats, beetles, dragonflies etc.. We can separate the weather-phenomena dominated bins based on the above criteria and the next step will be to find the total reflectivity in the remaining non-weather cubes.___

- ### ___Let's say that we are interested in insects, so we can exclude other animals (cubes dominated by birds, bats etc). Birds have a particularly strong reflection owing to their larger sizes.___

- ### ___Next, we can estimate the quantity by finding the radar cross-section of a representative specimen. e.g a damselfly reflects $1.23cm^2$ area of the radar beam. This is one of the hardest steps since there are very few cross-section models available for insects.___


- ### ___The calculations follow:___
# ___$N ~=~ (\frac{Total~reflectivity}{Cross~section~of~a~representative~specimen})$___

- ### ___Next, we calculate the volume of each scanning cubes, which gets larger as we move away from the transmitter. (Here we moving into a 3D space) This allows us to determine the number of insects in a unit volume e.g. $km^3$.___

- ### ___Multiplying the average biomass of the select insect by their number gives the total biomass. This biomass estimates can be mapped across the entie radar space. (like a 3D heatmap)___

- ### ___VLRs make this even more easier. Not only that they provide counts of insects, they also characterize the insects in real-time at the point of measurement. Since their scope is narrow they are able to quantify the biomass of organisms in their field of view with little processing.___

- ### ___These two methods together have opened up an unprecedented amount of avenues to explore the biodiversity in the air space.___
